---
title: 'Pizza slices of my life'
image: 'pizza-slices.jpb'
excerpt: 'An open-ended activity for the ESOL classroom I originally saw demonstrated in a workshop by English For Action.'
#
# If you need a caption, just uncomment the following lines
#
# caption: 'My pizza'
# caption_url: ''
---
This description was prompted by an exchange with Aleksandra Grabowska on Facebook and is an extension of what I wrote following an English For Action workshop at the Rewrite Creative ESOL day conference last year.

This was an activity presented by EFA’s Dermot Bryers and Cait Crosse. This half-remembered description may not match entirely their version of the activity.
<!--more-->

### Identity pizza

Equipment required: a blank sheet of paper for each person (at least A4 size); pens and pencils for drawing and colouring.

- Make sure that each person has a piece of paper and something to draw with. Ask each person to draw the outline of a pizza (a big circle) on their piece of paper. It does not matter if it is not a perfect circle – pizzas are not perfectly circular. The outlines should take up as much of the paper as possible.
- Ask each person to think of one thing that defines them as a person, an experience they have had or a skill they possess. They should try to come up with between five and seven things.
- Ask them to divide their pizza into slices and to draw a picture for each of the things they thought of. Each picture should fill one slice.
- They should come up with something like this. So should you – because the teacher or facilitator of the group is as involved in this activity as the learners.
